
                               How to Play

***************************** ROLLING RONNY ****************************        


The World of Rolling Ronny:
---------------------------
     Ronny is a clever and smart English errand boy who is never seen
     on an errand without his roller-skates allowing him to move
     very quickly through the streets of his town.

     Little Ronny has to run the errand of his life. He has been
     promised a huge reward for delivering an outstandingly important
     and top secret message at 210, Humpty Street at the other end of
     the town. 
     But this job is going to be a hell of a crux, and Ronny has to get
     there at his own expenses and risks. There are buses to catch and many
     obstacles to surmount, requireing an excessive deal of strategy,
     wit, and skill. 

     Ronny never goes on his errands without a couple of bags of home-made
     peppermint-flavoured marshmallows with garlic icing (P.F.M.G.I.).
     The particular fragrance (ignorant people
     may call it "stench") of this specialty is effective indeed!!!
     That's why Ronny shoots it at all the objects he wants to get out
     of his way. To make use of these "lethal sweets" just press the
     fire button on your joystick (cf. Shooting). The P.F.M.G.I. has
     no effect on pedestrians and some other moving objects which are used
     to English eating habits. 

     The levels and its inhabitants are genuine imitations of an
     English town and of prototypical English people and thingumbobs.
     So, never forget to say "please", mind your pronunciation and
     attitudes, and try to get used to the English sense of humor. 
     Have fun and enjoy the crazy world of ROLLING RONNY!



Getting Around:
---------------
                        Joystick movements
                        ------------------

              Jump left        Jump        Jump right
                            (Climb up)
         

             Skate left     Fire=Shoot     Skate right

   
                           (Climb down)    
                   Duck        Duck        Duck


     You generally can skate on all smooth and plain surfaces in-
     cluding railtracks, window sills, breast walls, etc.
    
     Avoid touching grassy ground or water and beware of pitfalls
     and other obstacles (including all pedestrians).

     When your tumbling is caused by unfit ground or pitfalls, a balloon
     will appear carrying you up in the air. While floating, you can move
     Ronny out of the dangerous area onto safe ground.
    
     When near a ladder, the upward and downward movements of the
     joystick make Ronny climb up or down the ladder.
  

Windows:
--------
     In certain situations a text window pops up on the screen and
     the game action will be paused. These windows are the means by
     which you can have Ronny communicate with the characters of the
     Game and make stratetic decisions. The highlighted text indicates
     the action which you will perform by pressing the fire button on
     the joystick. When several options are available, select by moving
     the joystick up or down and then press the fire button.


Errands:
--------
     From time to time at certain positions in the level (most likely in
     front of house entrances or when facing pedestrians) you will be
     offered an errand. The conditions and terms of delivery and payment
     as well as the destination address will be displayed in the window
     that pops up. Some errands will bring you generous tips, while others
     promise a load of bonus points. Decide very carefully whether you
     want to accept the job or not!

     You generally have three options:   
                    
          - Accepting the errand on suggested terms.

          - Bargaining and trying to raise the amount of money offered
            for the suggested errand.

          - Rejecting the errand.

     You have the possibility to bargain as often as you like. But don't
     push your luck too hard! The customers may get tired of your bar-
     gaining and lower their offer or quit business with you once and
     for all. 

     When you finally accept the terms for an errand, the item which
     you have to deliver is handed over to you and appears in the panel
     display (F1-F4) at the bottom of your screen. Pressing the according
     F-key lets pop up a window reminding you again of the terms for this
     particular errand.

     Tumbling too often (more than 3 times) can result in dammaging or
     loosing your chargo. If this happens, you will immediately be fined
     the same amount of money which you would have got for completing
     the errand successfully. The number of tumbles for each item will be
     printed in the display for each item individually.
     
     You can go (or rather skate) on several errands simultaneously. But
     you can't carry more than four items (including gadgets) at the same
     time.

     Having successfully delivered an item at its destination, another
     window pops up containing the receivers comment. 

     Each completed errand is worth a certain amount of points. The total
     of this points is shown in the BONUS display in the panel. As soon
     as an errand is completed successfully the points are added up to
     the score.


Money:
------
     Try to get as much money as you possibly can (it's quite like in
     real life, isn't it?). Besides the money you get with your errands
     there is always the possibility to collect the coins people lost in
     the streets.

     At the end of each level you will have to buy a ticket at the bus
     stop and take the bus to the next level. Make sure to dispose of
     enough money when arriving at the bus stop. The average fare is about
     110 cents. These ... tickets are expensive like ... ! 

     Each cent of the money remaining after having purchased your ticket
     at the end of each Level will be transformed into 1000 points on
     your score. 

     Ronny usually offers his seat to elderly women in crowded buses.
     That is why he leaves the bus with a nice tip of ten cents at the
     beginning of each new level. 

     Ronny sets out with 10 cents at the beginning. If he spoils an
     errand item (by tumbling repeatedly) and thus has to pay more money
     than he currently has, you lose the game. 


Cubes:
------
     Each cube collected is worth 50 points.

     You positively absolutly must collect all but five cubes in each
     level to be able to proceed to the next level. Choose very carefully
     the five cubes you do NOT want to collect, because you have
     to pick up all the other cubes!

     Each of the five optional cubes collected is worth 400 points. 
     Collecting all the cubes in a level (including the five optional
     cubes) will be rewarded with 3000 points extra.


Shooting:
---------
     Each shot with a P.F.M.G.I. will cost you some energy. You can shoot
     most (but not all) of the moving objects to get them out of your way
     except for people and domestic animals (is a monkey on a skateboard
     considered a domestic animal?). The number of shots is not limited,
     but watch your energy level! You can't release shots when on a
     ladder or while ducking.


Energy:
-------
     Skating around will decrease your energy minimally, while climbing
     ladders, jumping and shooting will consume more energy.

     Touching an energy ball or purchasing energy supplying items in
     a shop will increase your energy level immediately.


Health:
-------
     The following actions will cost you some health:

          - falling too deep or falling into ditches and pits

          - severe collisions with obstacles and moving objects

          - tumbles caused by touching ground or surface unfit for
            roller-skates (grass, water, etc.)

     Catching a health ball or buying health supplying items in a shop
     will increase your health level at once.


Shops:
------
     Touching a shop sign will pop up a window displaying all the items
     and gadgets offered in this shop including their prices and their
     effects on your energy or health. Select an item to purchase or
     exit the menue. When you buy a health or energy supplying item you
     will immediately profit from its effect.


Gadgets:
--------
     Some shops offer gadgets to improve your equipment. Occasionally
     you may also find a gadget in the street. You can't carry more than
     four of them (including other items). But they can't be dammaged
     or lost by your tumbling.
     
     There are situations where only the use of such a gadget can prevent
     you from severe loss of health or energy. 

     The following gadgets are available:

          - Superjump: lets you perform a jump about three times higher and
                       longer than a regular jump. 1 cent each.

          - Megahonk : neglects collisions during 4 seconds. 1 cent each.

          - Magnetofluct: collects all bonus items on current screen
                          (health and energy balls, rotating cubes and
                          questionmarks, lost properties, coins) and lets
                          you profit from their effects. 2 cents each.

          - Stenchalizer: paralizes all moving objects on current screen.
                          3 cents each.
     
          - Powersneeze: makes disappear all dangerous objects on current
                         screen (not the bonus items). 5 cents each.
            

     To activate a gadget, press the corresponding F-key.


Surprise:
---------
     The rotating red question-marks reveal their surprising effect
     as soon as you touch them. They can positively affect your money,
     health or energy. But not quite all question-marks are friendly!


Lost Properties:
----------------
     A bubbling exclamation-mark stands for lost property. Pick it up,
     return it to the address displayed in the window which will appear,
     and you may get a bulk of points on your score and a fine reward
     from the owner ... hopefully. Lost property is lost or dammaged
     when you tumble more than three times.


Game Over:
----------
     The game is over when

          - you are not healthy enough to carry on your errands (watch
            the health level display).

          - you are out of power and lack the energy to move on (watch
            the energy level display).

          - you spoiled too many of your errands and are short of the
            110 cents which you need in order to purchase a bus ticket
            to the next level.

          - you have to overdraw your account in order to pay for lost
            or dammaged items of an unsuccessful errand.


Saving the Game:
----------------
     At the end of each level, after having entered the bus, you have
     the possibility to relax and save the current game and score.
     The CONTINUE GAME option in the main menue then allows you to
     directly access, load and continue a previously saved game.


Music and Sound:
----------------
     Press the M key to stop and start the music, press the S key to
     stop and start the sound effects.


Nachtrag vom letzten mal! Was wollten wir eigentlich mit dem Passwort?
Ich glaube eine Save/Load Game Option waere sinnvoller. Am Ende jedes
Levels kann das Spiel gespeichert werden (nur der Score!) und
im Hauptmenue wieder geladen und dann fortgesetzt werden. Wahrscheinlich
ist es sinnvoll, bei einer Kollision mit einem feindlichen Bob Ronny
nicht hinfallen zu lassen, weil dieser zuviel Zeit braucht um aufzustehen
und aus der Gefahrenzone zu kommen, was dazu fuehren kann, dass Ronny,
wenn er endlich aufgestanden ist, gleich wieder mit demselben oder
einem neachsten Bob kollodieren koennte. Am besten verliert er bei einer
solchen Kollisioen einfach health, kann aber sonst ungehindert am
feindlichen Bob vorbeifahren. Eine andere Moeglichkeit waere, wenn
das gegnerische Bob bei einer Kollision mit Ronny explodieren wuerde und
Ronny gleichzeitig auf die Schnautze fliegt und so health verliert.
Das Bob koennte auch explodieren und Ronny health abziehen ohne das er
hinfaellt. Auf den Leitern und beim Ducken kann Ronny nicht schiessen.


                                   Mit freundlichem Gruss,

